Okay, so we've covered the basics
of what a service worker is,
it's time to write it.
So I will go back to my code.
And actually, at the top of this file,
I can start trying to
register a service worker.
So that's actually pretty simple.
Its navigator.serviceWorker,
be careful with
capital W.register and
the script URL, that's all.
Of course, I need to create that file,
so that's fine.
Shouldn't be in the scripts folder,
by default,
the service worker will take
its scope at his current path.
So if I create the service
worker in the script sub folder,
it will manage that folder and
that folder only.
So that's why typically there
are ways to bypass that,
but it's get complicated
without any reason.
Most of the time,
we want the service worker to be
in the root folder of our web app.
It can be the root folder of the origin,
the domain or not.
So, far it's empty.
So the only thing that I,
it's just an empty file.
I just need to specify here /sw.js,
that will register that will
install the service worker.
Of course, right now the service
worker is doing nothing.
But just by doing this,
just by registering a service worker,
now we have the power to execute
code in a separate lifecycle,
in the background of our page, and I will
show you that in action in a minute.
So, if I save this, I think both
files are saved even if it's empty.
So the only thing that
I added is that line,
navigator.serviceWorker.register, that's
all.
With that, I can go to any browser.
Run this, and now how do I know if
the service worker is running or not?
In Google Chrome,
we can open that tools, and
we are going to make usage
of the Application tab.
In fact, if we look at the Application
tab, we have many options, and
if we scroll down, we have a section for
background services.
So here we have a full section
of the dev tools, prepare for
background execution and read for
the bargain background execution.
So I'm scrolling up again, here,
if I get into service worker,
it says that I do have a service
worker activate it and
stop and another one waiting for
activation.
So and here I have a link says,
that says skip waiting.
Actually, what it's doing is it's forcing
the current service worker version.
We are not actually covering in this
workshop the basics of service workers,
so we are not covering what happens
if you update the service worker and
so on, so we are just gonna use that.
Something that I will need to select
here is this option, update on reload.
With this device login option set,
what will happen is that every time you
refresh your page, it will also refresh
the service worker installation.
So it will improve our work right now
because we will be focusing on executing
code in the background.
So now if I refresh, you will see that
now I have the service worker ID9.
Every time you refresh,
it's reinstalling the service worker,
even if it didn't change.
So at this point, this is for
debugging purposes, and it will force your
last version of the service worker
which will actually be there for you.
But now, if you go to the console,
if you write some code here,
that code is running the main thread.
But there is a selector here that says
stop, if you click that selector,
you will see another,
Scope that is the service worker.
So from here,
you can actually execute code, and
now you are in
the ServiceworkerGlobalScope.
Even if it's an empty file,
now I have a scope, so
actually I can run code there.
The problem is that if I close my tab,
I don't have Dev Tools, okay?
Okay, I don't have a way to continue to
execute going that background process.
So if you want to actually play with this
with a nature button, I can show you how.
You can go back to that Chrome
service worker internals website.
Fine, your service worker is
this one on the current origin.
From here, you can click inspect, and
that will open a new window
inspecting all your service worker.
So now I can close my tab.
So I don't have a tab anymore.
I don't have a window
anymore by still have code
that is running in the background.
Can I do alert?
No, I don't have UI, I don't have a DOM,
I don't have user interface.
And after a few seconds of inactivity,
I will be dead.
I'm the third service work.
But here you can see I don't
have the website anymore and
the service worker is still running,
and I have a console.
I can execute code there and
if I have some code there
that is doing an operation,
it would wait for me, not forever,
but it will wait for me.
How much time will wait?
It's unclear, so
the spec doesn't say anything about that.
So it depends on the browser,
actually, okay?
In fact, probably if I try this again.
No, it's still there.
It's still up and running.
Of course, here I can see if
it's still running or not.
It's still running, so
I have a thread of my own service,
that runs not matter if I do
have my web app running or not.
That's kind of idea, okay?
You have any questions at this point?
Yeah.
>> Just maybe a clarification.
Does you're running commands
in the console here,
keep the service worker going at all,
or is it?
>> No after a while.
So look at this, I can click here stop,
and if I hit stop,
so now it's stop,
my depth tools now is disconnected, okay?
I force that but actually,
if that happens, because of the browser's
internal algorithm, you will see
that while the Dev Tools is open.
Well, Safari.
Safari, it's kind of tricky,
well, it's Safari, right?
But if I'm running the app, for example,
here In the Develop menu there is
a whole menu for service workers.
So if you open the inspector,
you won't find service workers there.
You need to open here the service
worker in localhost, that's my origin,
and now I will have an inspector running
in the service worker global scope.
The problem is that if I close the window,
that scope will last 5 to 10 seconds
only because Safari's lifespan for
the service worker is
actually really short.
So it will kill my service
worker pretty quickly.
Okay, so
that was registering the service worker.
The problem is that it's doing nothing so
far, but
that's actually the home for
most of the code that we will write,
after this section, so
everything will happen there.
Because it has its own lifecycle,
it doesn't matter if you close the tab.
You can still execute code in that context
in the service worker global scope, okay?
Make sense?
Now going back to to Chrome.
If I open my app again,
in the application tab,
In background services,
you have one section per app.
So you can see here.
What's going on in the background?
What's the idea if my service
worker wakes up, during the night,
and is doing something
with some of those APIs.
I will be able to see that
here if I record the activity.
So I can open the inspector,
record the activity, and wait.
Meanings are worth wherever, and they will
see every event here, and also I can,
of course use a console and see what the
service worker was doing in the console.
We will see this in action later.
And within the service worker section,
we also have a place here,
it's probably from push to periodic sync,
to actually test the push API,
the background sync API, and
the periodic background sync API, okay?
So these are the tools that we will
be using in the next few hours.
Unfortunately, Safari has no
debugging tools like this, and
on Firefox, it's kind of also for
service workers, not so good.
Also, Firefox is not supporting
background sync or the others.
But for push, for
example on Safari or Firefox,
you don't have any debugging tools.
So you actually need to test that, and
we will do that later
directly with the URL code.
With chrome, we can test what happens.
So what's the idea?
For example, if I hit here push,
this is going to simulate
that the server is sending out,
sending us that message.
So if I hit here, nothing happens, but
that's because my service worker
is doing nothing with a push.
But without even explaining the API yet
If I go to my service worker and
I add an event
listener to the sales
object to the push event.
Actually, we can send
a message to the console,
we have received a pollution message.
Now, because I have just change,
the service worker file,
it's important to have that setting up,
they don't reload.
So if I reload the page, I want to
make sure that my new service worker,
it's actually ready Because if not it will
take the previous version by default.
Make sense?
This is just to show you the debugging
tools quickly so for example I can go here
to notifications will actually push my
session maybe I can start recording.
But have in mind this is a simulator only,
not the real push server.
And if I refresh,
I can try to push a message.
And in the console, you can see
that I've received the message.
Of course, you can use any tool, so
you can use our old friend debugger here,
okay?
And you can try just again,
send another message,
like from Frontend Masters push, okay?
And now, my debugger stopped
there in the serviceWorker and
I can actually see what's
inside the push event.
And I can see there is data, okay?
Target blah, blah, blah blah.
And the data will contain
the message that we received.
We will work with this later.
But I wanna show you how
this actually works.
You have a Service Worker and
the Service Worker will have a lot
of event listeners listening for each of
the use cases for background execution.